README.rst, before:

.. joystick

.. image:: http://img.shields.io/travis/ceyzeriat/joystick/master.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/ceyzeriat/joystick
.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/ceyzeriat/joystick/badge.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://coveralls.io/github/ceyzeriat/joystick?branch=master
.. image:: http://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPLv3-blue.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://github.com/ceyzeriat/joystick/blob/master/LICENSE

:Name: joystick
:Website: https://github.com/ceyzeriat/joystick
:Author: Guillaume Schworer
:Version: 0.1

Joystick provides a light-weight and simple framework to real-time data-plotting and logging, while the console remains accessible to manage the on-going simulation and data acquisition.

In some ways, this framework can replace a Graphical User Interface (GUI) on many projects, as long as 1) the user is comfortable enough with managing the simulation using command-lines, and 2) the display of the real-time data is not too complex.

Allright. Let's say you have some data-stream (serial port, web scraping, on-going simulation or experiment, etc), and you would like to plot or log in real-time whatever is happening. In addition you would also like to send commands to interact with the mechanisms producing the data... without having to build a GUI (which looks pretty to your boss, but is time-consumming both in initial design and maintenance).

Then, this package is for you.

Note that Joystick is based on Tkinter to display frames of text or graph, and that it is released under the GNU General Public License v3 or later (GPLv3+).


Straight to the point: check-out this example. It generates fake random data (ydata) between 0 and 1.05 every 0.2 second, displayed as a function of time in a graph-frame. Whenever there is a datapoint above 1, it drops a warning in the text-frame.

.. code-block:: python

    import joystick as jk
    import numpy as np
    import time

    class test(jk.Joystick):
       # initialize the infinite loop decorator
        _infinite_loop = jk.deco_infinite_loop()
        _callit = jk.deco_callit()

        @_callit('after', 'init')
        def _init_data(self, *args, **kwargs):
            """
            Function called (first) at initialization, thanks to the decorator
            """
            self._t0 = time.time()  # initialize time
            self.xdata = np.array([self._t0])  # time x-axis
            self.ydata = np.array([0.0])  # fake data y-axis

        @_callit('after', 'init')
        def _build_frames(self, *args, **kwargs):
            """
            Function called (second) at initialization, thanks to the decorator
            """
            # create a graph frame
            self.mygraph = self.add_frame(
                       jk.Graph(name="test", size=(500, 500), pos=(50, 50),
                                fmt="go-", xnpts=15, freq_up=7, bgcol="y",
                                xylim=(0,10,0,1)))
            # create a text frame
            self.mytext = self.add_frame(
                          jk.Text(name="Y-overflow", size=(500, 250),
                                  pos=(600, 50), freq_up=1))

        @_infinite_loop(wait_time=0.2)
        def _generate_fake_data(self):  # function looped every 0.2 second
            """
            Loop starting with simulation start, getting data and
            pushing it to the graph every 0.2 seconds
            """
            # concatenate data on the time x-axis
            self.xdata = jk.core.add_datapoint(self.xdata,
                                               time.time(),
                                               xnptsmax=self.mygraph.xnptsmax)
            # concatenate data on the fake data y-axis
            self.ydata = jk.core.add_datapoint(self.ydata,
                                               np.random.random()*1.05,
                                               xnptsmax=self.mygraph.xnptsmax)
            # check overflow for the last data point added
            if self.ydata[-1] > 1:
                # send warning to the text-frame
                self.mytext.add_text('Some data bumped into the ceiling: '
                                     '{:.3f}'.format(self.ydata[-1]))
            # prepare the time axis
            t = np.round(self.xdata-self._t0, 1)
            # push new data to the graph
            self.mygraph.set_xydata(t, self.ydata)

    t = test()
    t.start()

Here is what it should look like:

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ceyzeriat/joystick/master/docs/img/view.png
   :align: center

You should see a 'snake' going through the graph-frame, but after 10 seconds it is gone (that was on purpose, for the sake of the demo!). Type (line by line):

.. code-block:: python

    t.mygraph.xnpts = 50
    t.mygraph.freq_up = 2
    t.mygraph.xylim = (None, None, 0, 1)

Now that should be better, displaying the latest 50 points at a slower pace (twice a second), and the x-axis is auto-adjusting. Let's stop and reinitialize the graph with slightly different parameters:

.. code-block:: python

    t.stop()
    t.mygraph.reinit(bgcol='w', axrect=(0,0,1,1), xylim=(None, None, 0, 1))
    t.start()
    t.stop()
    t.exit()

Too easy!


Documentation
=============

Refer to this page, http://pythonhosted.org/joystick/joystick.html


Requirements
============

Joystick requires the following Python packages:

* tkinter: for the frames GUI
* NumPy: for basic numerical routines
* matplotlib: for plotting


Installation
============

The easiest and fastest way for you to get the package and run is to install joystick through pip::

  $ pip install joystick

You can also download joystick source from GitHub and type::

  $ python setup.py install

Dependencies will not be installed automatically. Refer to the requirements section. If you have an anaconda distribution, you will be good to go.

Contributing
============

Code writing
------------

Code contributions are welcome! Just send a pull request on GitHub and we will discuss it. In the `issue tracker`_ you may find pending tasks.

Bug reporting
-------------

If you think you've found one please refer to the `issue tracker`_ on GitHub.

.. _`issue tracker`: https://github.com/ceyzeriat/joystick/issues

Additional options
------------------

You can either send me an e-mail or add it to the issues/wishes list on GitHub.

Citing
======

If you use joystick on your project, please
`drop me a line <mailto:{my first name}.{my family name}@gmail.com>`, you will get fixes and additional options earlier.

License
=======

Joystick is released under the GNU General Public License v3 or later (GPLv3+). Please refer to the LICENSE file.

Commit message:

deprecated _init and _update and replaced it by callit

README.rst, after:

.. joystick

.. image:: http://img.shields.io/travis/ceyzeriat/joystick/master.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/ceyzeriat/joystick
.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/ceyzeriat/joystick/badge.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://coveralls.io/github/ceyzeriat/joystick?branch=master
.. image:: http://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPLv3-blue.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://github.com/ceyzeriat/joystick/blob/master/LICENSE

:Name: joystick
:Website: https://github.com/ceyzeriat/joystick
:Author: Guillaume Schworer
:Version: 0.2

Joystick provides a light-weight and simple framework to real-time data-plotting and logging, while the console remains accessible to manage the on-going simulation and data acquisition.

In some ways, this framework can replace a Graphical User Interface (GUI) on many projects, as long as 1) the user is comfortable enough with managing the simulation using command-lines, and 2) the display of the real-time data is not too complex.

Allright. Let's say you have some data-stream (serial port, web scraping, on-going simulation or experiment, etc), and you would like to plot or log in real-time whatever is happening. In addition you would also like to send commands to interact with the mechanisms producing the data... without having to build a GUI (which looks pretty to your boss, but is time-consumming both in initial design and maintenance).

Then, this package is for you.

Note that Joystick is based on Tkinter to display frames of text or graph, and that it is released under the GNU General Public License v3 or later (GPLv3+).

Straight to the point: check-out this example. It generates fake random data (ydata) between 0 and 1.05 every 0.2 second, displayed as a function of time in a graph-frame. Whenever there is a datapoint above 1, it drops a warning in the text-frame.

.. code-block:: python

    import joystick as jk
    import numpy as np
    import time

    class test(jk.Joystick):
       # initialize the infinite loop and callit decorators so they can auto-
       # register methods they decorate
        _infinite_loop = jk.deco_infinite_loop()
        _callit = jk.deco_callit()

        @_callit('before', 'init')
        def _init_data(self, *args, **kwargs):
            # Function automatically called at initialization, thanks to the
            # decorator
            self._t0 = time.time()  # initialize time
            self.xdata = np.array([self._t0])  # time x-axis
            self.ydata = np.array([0.0])  # fake data y-axis

        @_callit('after', 'init')
        def _build_frames(self, *args, **kwargs):
            # Function automatically called at initialization, thanks to the
            # decorator. It will be called after "_init_data" given that it is
            # declared after
            # create a graph frame
            self.mygraph = self.add_frame(
                       jk.Graph(name="test", size=(500, 500), pos=(50, 50),
                                fmt="go-", xnpts=15, freq_up=7, bgcol="y",
                                xylim=(0,10,0,1)))
            # create a text frame
            self.mytext = self.add_frame(
                          jk.Text(name="Y-overflow", size=(500, 250),
                                  pos=(600, 50), freq_up=1))

        @_infinite_loop(wait_time=0.2)
        def _get_data(self):
            # This method will automatically be called with simulation start
            # (t.start()), and looped every 0.2 in a separate thread as long as
            # the simulation runs (running == True)
            # It gets new data (fake random data) and pushes it to the frames.
            # concatenate data on the time x-axis
            new_x_data = time.time()
            self.xdata = jk.core.add_datapoint(self.xdata,
                                               new_x_data,
                                               xnptsmax=self.mygraph.xnptsmax)
            # concatenate data on the fake data y-axis
            new_y_data = np.random.random()*1.05
            # check overflow for the new data point
            if new_y_data > 1:
                # send warning to the text-frame
                self.mytext.add_text('Some data bumped into the ceiling: '
                                     '{:.3f}'.format(self.ydata[-1]))
            self.ydata = jk.core.add_datapoint(self.ydata,
                                               new_y_data,
                                               xnptsmax=self.mygraph.xnptsmax)
            # prepare the time axis
            t = np.round(self.xdata-self._t0, 1)
            # push new data to the graph
            self.mygraph.set_xydata(t, self.ydata)

        @_callit('before', 'exit')
        def exit_warning(self):
            # Just a warning, automatically called with the exit method, and
            # before the exiting actually takes place (closing frames, etc)
            print("You're about to exit, frames will disappear in 1 second")
            time.sleep(1)

    t = test()
    t.start()

Here is what it should look like:

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ceyzeriat/joystick/master/docs/img/view.png
   :align: center

You should see a 'snake' going through the graph-frame, but after 10 seconds it is gone (that was on purpose, for the sake of the demo!). Type (line by line):

.. code-block:: python

    t.mygraph.xnpts = 50
    t.mygraph.freq_up = 2
    t.mygraph.xylim = (None, None, 0, 1)

Now that should be better, displaying the latest 50 points at a slower pace (twice a second), and the x-axis is auto-adjusting. Let's stop and reinitialize the graph with slightly different parameters:

.. code-block:: python

    t.stop()
    t.mygraph.reinit(bgcol='w', axrect=(0,0,1,1), xylim=(None, None, 0, 1))
    t.start()
    t.stop()
    t.exit()

Too easy!


Documentation
=============

Refer to this page, http://pythonhosted.org/joystick/joystick.html


Requirements
============

Joystick requires the following Python packages:

* tkinter: for the frames GUI
* NumPy: for basic numerical routines
* matplotlib: for plotting


Installation
============

The easiest and fastest way for you to get the package and run is to install joystick through pip::

  $ pip install joystick

You can also download joystick source from GitHub and type::

  $ python setup.py install

Dependencies will not be installed automatically. Refer to the requirements section. If you have an anaconda distribution, you will be good to go.

Contributing
============

Code writing
------------

Code contributions are welcome! Just send a pull request on GitHub and we will discuss it. In the `issue tracker`_ you may find pending tasks.

Bug reporting
-------------

If you think you've found one please refer to the `issue tracker`_ on GitHub.

.. _`issue tracker`: https://github.com/ceyzeriat/joystick/issues

Additional options
------------------

You can either send me an e-mail or add it to the issues/wishes list on GitHub.

Citing
======

If you use joystick on your project, please
`drop me a line <mailto:{my first name}.{my family name}@gmail.com>`, you will get fixes and additional options earlier.

License
=======

Joystick is released under the GNU General Public License v3 or later (GPLv3+). Please refer to the LICENSE file.
